This repository contains the code used for the article "The Transcriptional Gradient in NNSVs is Explained by the Processivity of Their Polymerases"

Notebook1 contains the python code for fitting the models to the viruses with simple gradients. The outputs of this notebook are the parameter fits and parameter fit statistics in Folder1 and Folder.The data in these folders that was generated by this notebook was used to make Table S1. The images used to generate all panels in figure 1 as well as panels A and B of figure 2 are also generated by this notebook.

Notebook2 contains the python code for fitting the models to the viruses with gradients that deviate from the traditional gradient (RSV). The outputs of this notebook are the parameter fits and parameter fit statistics in Folder1 and Folder2. The data in these folders that was generated by this notebook was used to make Table S2 and S3. The images used to generate figure 2C and 2D are also generated by this notebook.

Markdown1 contains the R Markdown code for fitting the linear regression model connecting polymerase processivity to genome length. It also generates the image used in figure 3.

Notebook3 contains the code for predicting the new gradients of expression for Vesicular Stomatitis Virus gene-shuffled variants. It also has the code for predicting the replicative fitness of these variants. This notebook requires access to the file containing a previously published model of VSV that can be found in file NPMGL_Model_SSA.xml. The outputs associated with this file can be found in Folder3. This file also generates the images required to generate figure 4.

Note - The choice of storing the previous model is justified in the original github associated with the model's publication:
https://github.com/Peccoud-Lab/VSV_Stochastic_Model_2023
